# Zephaniah 1:2 אָסֹ֨ף אָסֵ֜ף

- 1:2
אָסֹ֨ף אָסֵ֜ף

- shockingly LHB and BHS points אָסֵ֜ף as a participle!: 

"סוף; verb, Hiphil, participle, ms abs.: 'bring to an end'"

- NET note:
> tn The Hebrew text combines the infinitive absolute of אָסַף (’asaf, “gather up, sweep away”) with a Hiphil prefixed first person form of סוּף (suf, “come to an end”; see Jer 8:13 for the same combination). This can be translated literally, “Sweeping away, I will bring to an end.” Some prefer to emend the text so that the infinitive and finite form of the verb are from the same root (“I will certainly sweep away,” if from אָסַף [cf. NEB, NIV, NRSV]; “I will certainly bring to an end,” if from סוּף). For a discussion of proposals see J. J. M. Roberts, Nahum, Habakkuk, and Zephaniah (OTL), 167, 169.

- BHQ App.

> v 2 אׇסֹ֙ף אׇסֵ֜ף and v 3 אׇסֵ֙ף1 and אׇסֵ֤ף2 The thrice repeated אׇסֵף of M is the hifil of √סוף, but the initial inf. abs. is the qal of √אסף. The similarity of meaning between the two verbs makes it difficult to be sure how the vrss. vocalized each of the four words, whose consonantal text is identical. Only T introduces a distinction of verbs, but with a different distribution from M, rendering the two in v. 2 by √שׁיצי and those in v. 3 by √סוף. G V S render throughout by the same verb, which seems to reflect √אסף (see G’s rendering of this verb in Isa 60:20 and Hos 4:3, and S’s rendering of it in Gen 30:23). The fragmentary evidence of Ḥev (Συ}ναγωγῃ̑ συν{) suggests that it too rendered by συνάγειν (= אסף).


> The construction with the inf. abs. qal (אָסֹף) produces an intensification of the statement (“completely”). The second verb form, however, (אָסֵף) appears to be pointed incorrectly: the expected 1st. pers. sing. of the impf. in the continuation should be אֶאֱסֹף, perhaps contracted to אֹסַף. In this case and in v. 3 it is usually corrected tacitly, cf. BHS. (Sweeney, Zephaniah, 61, on the other hand argues that the Masoretic pointing shows that one should read a hiphil from סוף, “make an end”—which is not otherwise attested!)

- Dietrich, IECOT, 1:2 note a:

Dietrich merely argues for a different pointing of MT, with both roots being from אָסַף, from אׇסֵ֜ף to "perhaps a contracted" אֹסַף (contracted form of אֶאֱסֹף):

Says the expected continuation from the inf. abs. was the 1s impf.

> The construction with the inf. abs. qal (אָסֹף) produces an intensification of the statement (“completely”). The second verb form, however, (אָסֵף) appears to be pointed incorrectly: the expected 1st. pers. sing. of the impf. in the continuation should be אֶאֱסֹף, perhaps contracted to אֹסַף. In this case and in v. 3 it is usually corrected tacitly, cf. BHS. (Sweeney, Zephaniah, 61, on the other hand argues that the Masoretic pointing shows that one should read a hiphil from סוף, “make an end”—which is not otherwise attested!)

NOTE! This would be perfect assonance! Instead of MT:

אָסֹ֨ף אָסֵ֜ף

אָסֹ֨ף אֹסַף

With ah-oh -> oh-ah chiastic match of the vowels!

== meaning

Dietrich on the puzzling problem of asaf being just as easily positive as negative:

> The beginning of the text is puzzling and unsettling in equal measure. The verb “gather in” (אסף) produces an iridiscent play of colors. On the one hand it can mean the bringing in of the harvest or collecting food (e.g. Exod 23:10; Num 11:32). This association is established by its use in combination with the noun אדמה, “farmland, fields.” On the other hand, it can take on a threatening tone and   p 204  designate the “taking away” (e.g., of peace in Jer 16:5 or of life in Ps 104:29) or even the “wiping out” of humans (1 Sam 15:6). In the narrative of the Flood, the phrase “away from the face of the fields” appears many times; is that being alluded to here?